and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
our weekly emails where I share
actionable website SEO and marketing
tips useful goodies podcasts and more
why not give a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email thanks for
joining me today I've got Jamie Hagan
James the marketing director over at
seligence Jamie welcome to the show sir
how are we doing hello thank you yeah it
was a brilliant introduction it's kind
of showed me up on my usual uh
introductions I do all my episodes but
yeah great to be here no worries man got
it gotta get a bit of a buzz bit of
excitement because uh in until the show
I was half asleep so it's about time I
wake up but that said we're gonna be
talking today on a fresh topic when we
talk about sales triggers and how in B2B
they can supercharge your marketing
efforts new topics for the show so
looking forward to diving into the ins
and outs of sales triggers so first and
foremost Jamie what the heck is is a
sales trigger
okay it's uh it's nice and simple so try
to try not to worry too much of sales
trick is it's basically a range of
events that happen triggering an
opportunity for business change so they
can be known as sales triggers trigger
events event triggers market triggers
um basically tons of names floating
around depending on what sort of
Industry you work in
um but as a B2B marketer or whether
you're in B2B sales it's a great
indication that that business is going
to go through a degree of change in the
next three to six months which is why
they can be so valuable
got it okay and are they specifically
focused around business change or is
there quite a number of things they can
impact I mean there's an exhaustive list
of triggers we we track 116 just to give
you an example of the sort of the
breadth of it and in with within each of
those 116 you've got sub categories as
well so I think we're going to run
through some of the um some of the top
ones and I think you'll get an
indication of sort of you know how
useful they can be
um varying degrees of course definitely
definitely yeah we'll jump into some of
the key ones and how you can actually
use those insights and data to to drive
leads Drive sales leads and drive
revenue for your B2B company
um but why are sales triggers important
why should companies be considering
looking at them
I think um as I said whether it's
marketing or sales one of the biggest
issues or the age-old problems is
knowing when to reach out or when to
Target prospects right you could spend a
lot of money targeting prospects at the
at the wrong time I think I saw us the
other day that says the average B2B
buying journey is Circa 300 300 plus
days now from the first point of which
they know about you to the point at
which it's closed one that's a hell of a
long time so by having these triggers at
hand it means that you can try and
Target them at the opportune moment with
a message that is relevant to the
business change that they are likely to
be going through in in the next three to
six months so triggers can basically
help
um with that timing and relevancy of the
message as well
nice
and are there fairly recent thinkers
like you say Jamie B2B typically sales
Cycles depend often depending on kind of
the the ticket size so how how much of
an investment your offer your solution
your technology is and then how many
decision makers it might take to to be
involved in the process can impact
self-cycle whether it's a week two weeks
a month a year to to actually make the
deal get over the line a sales truck is
something that's been around for a long
time or are they something that's coming
to play fairly recently because I
haven't heard of them probably until up
until a few months ago I think I think
the triggering events themselves have
obviously they're actually when we get
into it you'll realize the triggering
events are stuff that you'll know about
already it's I think what's coming
around in perhaps the last six to 12
months is actually the value in tracking
them and how they can help you reach out
with relevancy and at the right time so
I think the perception of their value is
relatively new but they've always been
around
got it understood well let's dive in
let's not be around the bush let's talk
about some of the the key self triggers
that B2B organization should be looking
at and and the impact they can have on
on your business brilliant so we we do
have um as I said an exhaustive list of
116 that we could go through I've picked
top 10 if we can get through them great
but we'll we'll run down the list so the
first one is key person change so this
is exactly what it says on the tin
someone changes their job title on
LinkedIn it gets tracked as a key person
change
um let's just hypothetically say PayPal
lose their head of compliance to
Sky then that is a key person change
that may indicate that that business is
going to be investing in compliance
related technology in the coming months
key person change just to give you a bit
of a fact the the average is in the
first 100 days of a c-suite or senior
leader moving into a role they spend 70
of their budget so if you're tracking
that trigger you know right that
person's moved into that roles in the
next hundred days they're going to be
big so this is a great opportunity for
me to reach out to the head of
compliance to say that I can help them
ramp up as quickly as possible
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah definitely
especially if like you say they've got
70 of their budget is typically what
they are ready to spend
um in terms of Outreach is that
something that we should cover after
we've gone through some of the the key
triggers or is there like a best
practice that we can talk about when it
comes to actually enabling your team to
reach out because we've had that trigger
we've seen that that's that's happened
within that organization I think um I
think logically that's um let's do it is
uh per trigger so key person change
someone moves into a role the Outreach
is going to be sort of tailored in terms
of the messaging it's like you think
about the the head of compliance that
example they're going to be under
pressure uh in that the first you know
few months perhaps the first two to four
weeks they're going to be getting their
feet under the table they're going to be
assessing just observing and it's in
month two and month three where a bulk
of that right I need to scope out where
there's gaps I need to look at new tech
and you often find people who move to a
company will actually bring the tech
that they had at their previous company
with them so again it's a slightly
different Nuance to that trigger if
you've got a customer champion and they
move to a new role you haven't
necessarily lost them because you can
pitch them at their new company so
there's this like there's a slight
Nuance uh Nuance there
um got it and in terms of marketing is
there anything you tend to do with this
data from a marketing perspective
whether it's kind of serving them ads or
I don't know looking at some kind of
unusual campaign that can impact them
because they have had that job change
yeah I think that in terms of um let's
just take out as the example I think you
could almost like think of it as a
retargeting campaign but except you know
that they've changed role in the last 90
days you could have a 90-day layer of
ads that are talking to people who have
moved into a new role recently and then
it feels like hyper personalized
messaging which as we all know can yield
way way higher results than you know
bone cold Outreach
um and you've got to think about is is
well you're you're gonna be far more
open to new technology or technology
that you've used previously
in nuts in that scenario so you might be
clicking on a lot more ads than you you
might have previously
um been engaged with if you've been at a
company four or five years with existing
processes and and systems so it's a
great window to Target people
and do you find from your experience
that these prospects that have recently
changed roles uh have get much in the
way of advertisements or actual sales
Outreach and is it quite often your team
will reach out to them and they'll find
that they're being hounded or is it
quite a nice opportunity because it's
quite the opposite and actually they're
they're quite quite happy to receive
some form of Outreach or sales school or
marketing collateral uh to be honest
though we were sort of uh alluding to I
think it's becoming a bit more
fashionable at the key person change
trigger itself is becoming a lot more
well known and fashionable so you do
often find like I um I changed my job
title on LinkedIn a few months back just
a promotion and the number of
outreaches I had off the back of that
promotion
was was quite surprising so in all
honesty like just a bit of advice don't
reach out initially like just because a
triggering event has fired it doesn't
mean you should reach out straight away
there's obviously a skill in knowing
that event has fired the optimal time to
reach out is not the next day because
they're probably going to be getting 20
emails from uh from people who are who
are trying to sell or Market to them
with ads lost in a thousand LinkedIn
messages yeah
destined for the graveyard cool man
let's let's move on to the next trigger
okay so this is a very well known one
funding rounds I mean we talk about you
know crunch base big name but funding
around has been a been around for
um ages so a company goes out um for
financing raises money from investors in
exchange for a quantity of the company
the chances are that funding has taken
place because they're looking to grow
out a particular area of the business
they're looking to expand into a new
region uh let's just take an example of
your uh you've seen big success in the
UK you raised 90 million to expand into
the US
now when you've got that big influx of
money there's obviously a lot of
pressures in terms of right we've given
you that money we want to see the
numbers come in typically that means
you're going to be spending money on on
new tools new people you know you know
hiring candidates
um so it's a great opportunity to reach
out to offer your services to help in in
that growth period again I will say if
someone gets funding lavender this is a
great example they got funding and they
said they had about 100 emails the very
next morning
um don't reach out the day of people
getting funding it's it's the worst time
to do it but
put it in the bank trigger a triggering
event has fired they're going to be
spending money or hiring new people in
the next three to six months so that's
uh that's the second trigger
and then any nice ways that you suggest
people reach out rather than just
congrats on the funding round here's my
offer book a demo
honestly I would um I would get creative
with it so they're gonna get as I said
100 emails saying congrats on the raise
congrats on the 100 million raise we can
help you I would just be just to have
fun with it you know say
um and I'm sure you've had 100 emails so
I'll cut right to the chase you know
short and sweet something like that or
90 million uh or you know funding rounds
are great I'd imagine the pressure's
ramped up let me help with the pressure
you know be really conversational
informal with it and I think that's
what's going to help you stand out gifts
videos send them a voice note on
LinkedIn even joking that they've
probably had 100 emails already about
the funding rounds
um so just try and get creative with it
I like it cool that's number two what
what have we got up next sir
so number three IPOs so this I I guess
this is kind of similar
um to funding in a way so initial public
offering
um you know this refers to a an event
where it can lead to the sale of company
shares
um so a private company would offer
shares to the public for the full first
time allowing investors to buy a stake
in the company now in terms of what that
tells you there's sort of three sort of
key things company performance obviously
IPO suggests the company's doing pretty
well
um the second would be market conditions
so shifts income consumer behaviors or
economic Trends can also impact a
company leading them to IPO
um if there's a successful IPO that
would suggest there's significant
interest in the company services with a
stronger backing it's likely set for New
Growth so you imagine you know
successful IPO chances are it's going to
be an interest in 12 to 24 months
following that
um big big targets big big growth
aspirations and then I think the third
is probably that investor sentiment so
you think if there's a it's it heavily
indicates that an investor uh investors
are confident in short a lack of a lack
of interest in the the IPO suggests that
the company could be on a bit of Shaky
Ground and they've ipo'd I don't know
try and get some cash in the door from
uh from it you know public more public
investors so you can you can determine a
lot from the success of an IPO in terms
of how well the company's doing and you
know what's going to be happening to
that company over the next 12 to 24
months as I said
um quite easy to to track obviously if
you've got a platform that does it great
but Google Alerts company Pages press
releases chances are you're probably
going to see it on LinkedIn as well
um so you're sort of your standard
channels
yeah yeah and I guess like you say it's
a similar kind of thing to to funding
it's showing business success it's
showing business change it's showing
growths happening so it makes sense to
reach out and see if there's a gap for
your your offer or a problem Your
solution fixes exactly yeah
nice okay let's proceed on to number
four
expansion plans so this is essentially
when a company would announce expansion
plans so a number of factors can come
into play in short it's kind of saying
if a company is growing in whatever
manner that may be it's indicating the
growth in terms of I think new team or
unit team growth regional growth
business area General expansion all of
those are going to require you know HR
management tools for example from a you
know from a candidate perspective if
they're expanding
um you know in terms of like offices you
think about the physical space the
buildings the the stuff that goes into
those offices so when a company says
look we're looking to expand our head
count great I mean as a recruiter
fantastic as a marketer great you just
you you're planning to add 100 new
people in the next 12 months how are you
onboarding them how are you training
them do you need you know HR management
tool that you that you don't currently
have all those sorts of sort of uh
indications come into play when a
company announces an expansion plan yeah
and how that sounds a little bit
trickier to track unless it's been
announced how would you understand that
companies going through that so I would
say Google Alerts is probably the most
common so in terms of like phrases like
company plans to expand as a phrase or
announces new office would be another
phrase that you could sort of set up so
you know let's use the PayPal example
PayPal announces new office in Cardiff
great you know if you're a recruiter in
that area fantastic if you're
um marketing
um you know and you focus on the UK then
great
um you know it's it's a opportunity for
you to
um start tracking that company or start
targeting that company you can also look
at um RSS feeds company press release
Pages if you want something a bit more
manual
um but uh yeah as I say Google Alerts
with certain key phrases they always use
the same phrase when companies announce
expansion plans so you can kind of get
those set up yeah yeah sounds good cool
and we go to number five
so this leads on quite nicely actually
so number five is is new office
um I don't need to tell you what a new
office announcement is that's nice and
simple but there are varying
um sort of levels of new office so
you've got headquarters uh office Branch
Center of Excellence r d and Tech hubs
for example data centers and each one of
those is going to tell you something
slightly different so if we take the
center of excellence which is slightly
different
um it tends to be a shared facility
where a focus goes to best practice
research and development you know
operations managers that sort of stuff
so it's a great opportunity for
referrals
um r d Tech Hub you think the number of
opportunities if they're spending a good
few million on a new r d in Tech hub for
people who might be marketing I don't
know physical products in terms of
printing machines
um a good example I think
is uh you think Tesla right when Tesla
open a new Giga Factory yeah I mean
fantastic opportunity for you to start
thinking about reaching out from a sales
perspective you know targeting to try
and fuel that pipeline from a marketing
perspective as well so the the r d Tech
curve designated for research and
development for improved products
services or processes
um a new Hub will need the best
Solutions in place to allow them to
allow for Innovations and creativity so
it's usually a sizable investment in a
short space of time got it so there
seems to be a bit of a theme so far on
the five we've had out of the ten a lot
of them are around
expansion growth
and similar are there any that are a bit
going in the opposite direction are they
ever like problem based are they ever
like oh we can see you've had this kind
of issue and that you might tell me that
the other five actually to involve all
this well numbers number six funnily
enough is uh is non-compliance so
um yeah to your point there definitely
are um a large chunk of sales triggers
that suggest that a company is either
not doing as well as it could be or in a
sticky situation
um or you know that sort of stuff so
non-compliance pretty simple
um investigated by a regulator
investigator for data privacy failures
um investigated for um a section 1166
fines you know that's a that's a great
one if a company has been fined
um this is quite like you said it's
quite a good one because if you're
um a recruiter who recruits for
compliance will use that example again
then it's a great opportunity to try and
place a new director of compliance in a
company that's just been fined for a
lack of procedure in compliance same for
marketing if you have a SAS SAS based
compliance platform
um great opportunity for you to start
targeting now if a company I will say if
a company's been fined um that's
probably too late to be starting to
Market to them because they essentially
have a very very short period of time to
fix that issue like you're talking
within 30 to 60 days they're going to
want to have
um new staff in place or new procedures
in place so it's um you want to probably
focus on the investigation side of it so
if someone's being investigated that
would be a good time because obviously
they probably haven't made any plans in
terms of well we've just got a large
fine we've rather sort it out so that
would be probably focus on the
investigator investigatory side of
things with that one yeah I'd imagine
you'd have to tread quite carefully When
approaching these companies that are
perhaps going through depending on how
severe the issue is and the impact it's
having on their business or employees or
revenue or whatever you don't want to
you don't want to call them straight
away and just say oh yeah so you've got
like you're about to get a hundred grand
fine or whatever it might be and I see
you've conducted this male conduct or
misconduct rather you don't want to piss
them off on on the first Outreach I
guess yeah for sure you're not going to
say oh hi uh High Bob commiserations on
the 20 million um fine you've just had
anyway we you know we can help but I
think again like
at the end of the day if a company is in
that sort of situation then they
absolutely will be looking to remedy it
so that's probably quite an interesting
one where you're in a situation where
almost like when someone's broken their
bones they need someone to set the bone
right so the doctors in that situation
are very similar to people who are going
to be offering their services to help
you know mitigate those sort of
compliance risks so it's it's yeah have
some tact with it but at the end of the
day they're going to be needing a
service or product
I guess a lot of it is around timing
like you say because if you're too late
then they've probably already sorted out
um just getting it right with that kind
of thing
yeah exactly I think um like I said try
and focus probably more on the in when
they're at the point of being
investigated
um you might actually just get an
announcement of the breach ahead of that
investigation being announced so again
you know have a look at the the breaches
um that would be a great trigger
um to look at and to be honest I
wouldn't have thought
too many people will be tracking that
sort of stuff in terms of you know
because like you said a lot of people
are probably focusing on the really nice
positive things but there's a there's a
lot there's a big opportunity to be had
on the negative side of things
and the thing is people move from Pain a
lot faster than they move towards goals
or pleasure or those kind of things so
yeah I'm guessing I I hate I I hate that
it's a lot easier and a lot more or you
get a lot more value for money out of
pain points because it would be nice for
it to be positive right like to to not
have to speak to pain points but it's um
I think someone used the metaphor before
it's like it's easier to sell someone
um
sell someone a new pair of shoes if the
shoes are rubbing you know that sort of
a metaphor
um so yeah for sure yeah yeah fair play
okay let's move on to number seven sir
uh again quite a nice let's say negative
one not nice negative one but negative
so legal legal to speak so it refers to
a conflict or disagreement between two
or more parties uh rises from a business
related matter and that's going to
require resolution through legal means
um so any company facing legal dispute
will be looking to tighten up on its
procedures so we've sort of talked about
the procedures previously but the
outcome of a legal dispute could have
significant consequences for that the
parties involved Financial penalty
penalties damages so you know a company
facing legal action is a kind of
tarnished reputation to to a degree so
it's
reassuring clients and investors will be
top of the to-do list so you know they
they might look to bolster let's say
certain things to to reassure investors
and clients
um and then if you go sort of down to
the other end of loses a legal battle
you know bad news for a company in this
situation obviously but they'll be
facing a costly bill but also damage to
the reputation so you think okay they're
facing a costly Bill are they going to
be cost cutting implications here
um you know if you're a tool that is uh
undercut your competitor in the market
and you can also apply a filter to say
that that company who's gone through
illegal dispute uses one of your
competitors good opportunity to start
targeting with some price-based ads for
example that'd be a nice um sort of
Highly targeted hyper personalized um
approach
got it
um and in terms of these last two we've
discussed so the the non-compliance and
legal disputes I'm guessing the best
approach there is more sales LED rather
than trying to feed the marketing
content or ads or things like that
because I'd imagine the marketing stuff
will just be too slow whereas you've got
to go straight in with the the sales
team whether that's email cool or
similar yeah I think you know
in a way as well for me if I saw an ads
that was let's say
alluding to the fact that uh you know
there was some sort of legal dispute
it'd be a bit of a weird ad to see in my
feed
um like hey we know you would just find
fancy a chat like you know yeah I think
that would be a bit of a weird one but
yeah but perhaps more on the from a
outbound sales point of view gotcha okay
let's let's hit up number eight uh
another negative one so cyber security
issue
um I mean this is this is a great one
right so cyber security huge huge Market
big big amounts of money to be had here
so again
um a potential breach a confirmed breach
or uh an order to enhance your protocol
um if you think about the end you know
order to enhance your protocol that
means companies facing that mandate are
going to have to demonstrate that
they've um taken the appropriate
measures which will involve tools
candidates you know tools people
um and that's a great opportunity for
someone in cyber security cyber security
platform to reach out or
um I said if a company's got a potential
breach great opportunity to start
marketing as they progress potentially
progress through that potential breach
confirmed reach order to enhance
protocol because
um I think companies are probably not
going to invest in enhancing those
protocols until they in order to do so
because to a degree they haven't gone
through the full investigation and been
told this isn't good enough this isn't
good enough so they kind of don't know
what they need to
um necessarily enhance but if you're in
the cyber security space and you you
mark it for that product or solution or
you sell it you're going to have a very
good understanding of what breach has
been announced and therefore what
they're going to require and you think
about it they could be looking for help
and assistance in that period so just
from a relationship building if you can
offer free help yeah that's going to be
a great you know a great method of of
reach out there
is there a way from your experience
Jamie to make sure that the triggers
that you're looking for
I.E I'm going to tailor
five or so triggers that are
specifically relevant to my target
market
um because somebody's great because they
can you use in a bunch of Industries but
have you seen a way where I I don't know
we sell
a SAS solution to financial advisors
whatever
um or it could be a different industry
um but we're going to tailor so we go
after triggers the hyper relevant to our
icpr audio client profile because I'm
guessing you can do it somehow
yeah 100 so I mean let's just 100 plus
triggers some of those are not going to
be relevant at all to people in certain
industries like if you're I mean funding
rounds that's pretty much across
everyone right that's that's great
companies got funding but there are
going to be some sort of hyper Niche
ones like if again if you're in cyber
security you would want to focus on a
cyber security issue but you're not
going to want to look at cyber security
issue if you've got no relation to that
from a from a tool perspective so what
we what what we would find is that let's
just say in terms of someone saying how
do I go about starting to trap those
triggers they
there would either need to be some
exploratory process during that that
phase or the person who's been in that
industry one to two years probably
already knows the the triggers that they
might be looking for in terms of this
um announcement suggests that they're
going to be a an ICP
um I mean some of the some of the
triggers could be a company for example
announcing that they've signed a
partnership and they might have signed a
partnership with a competitor so a great
you know that would be specific to a
certain competitor a trigger based on it
on a on a keyword
um of a partnership or product launch
for example again that could be pretty
pretty tightly tailored to a particular
vertical got it nice one all right let's
wrap up nine and ten for the top
triggers cool so number nine um
Financial results announcement kind of
links to the you know the previous on
the same sort of theme as the the
funding round and the IPOs so you know
funding announcements good or bad both
of them are going to tell you something
so positive results a company with
increased profits is is likely to be
interested in BD so they're they've seen
rapid growth they're going to want to
expand the team great do you need a
bigger better CRM do you need a new lead
generation tool I think companies that
announce positive results you think of
it like that's great but you've also got
that
pressure that follows it of like you've
had a great year you want to keep it up
and you might start to see that positive
results okay we're plattering slightly
is there anything more we can do let's
get a new BD tool perhaps we're doing
really great we've expanded the team but
we want to increase efficiency so you
they might be looking at tools to help
them increase efficiencies all in one
platform like you know that sort of
thing monetary loss on the flip side a
company that's losing money is going to
be looking to reevaluate its Tech stack
for example or resources so you if
you're marketing and all-in-one platform
great you rather you can Market a you
know market with the the position of
consolidating uh you know expensive Tech
Stacks down into one tool
um from a sales or Staffing or recruit
stuff and recruitment you know monetary
loss probably probably going to mean
layoffs
um so there could be candidates
available
um so that's from a staffing point of
view but um
yeah monetary loss tells you just as
much as a positive results announcement
profit warning
pre-release announcement dividend
announcement so
dividend dividends you think of a
company sharing wealth through dividend
payouts is usually is usually more
established than stable it's a good
indicator that the company has very
stable cash flow and they're generating
steady profits so if they got you know
good cash flow and steady pro profits
with dividends they're going to have a
sizable amount of budget to just test
like that they're always going to be
looking for new tools to seeing seeing
how they can just take it to the next
level so yeah Financial results how to
track it you've got SEC filings earning
calls industry news
um you know Google Alerts company Pages
press releases that sort of thing nice
yeah yeah Financial based I guess
there's a lot like you said there's a
lot you can take it depending on how
good they are how positive the results
are how Negative they are depending on
how you want to flip it that's relevant
yeah to your offer youth take links is
LinkedIn as an example that I know that
there's a targeting
um sort of filter in LinkedIn where you
can Target based on company growth so
you can actually Target companies who've
seen negative growth
as well on LinkedIn so that's a great
opportunity for Okay negative growth
like we said money saving so if you if
one of your key value propositions is
that you're 50 cheaper than your the
main competitor in the market and you're
just as good great like that's a great
sort of little niche to Target again if
a company has seen 20 plus growth and
you a new market for a HR related
platform or an efficiency based platform
yeah again fantastic little um sort of
targeting Niche there lovely job and was
that was that number nine or number ten
that was number nine number ten is a is
a negative one so we're going to finish
on the negative unfortunately
um but I think everyone's going to be
very well versed in this one so job loss
and layoffs
um no need for the the explanation here
but
a job loss trigger event is not
obviously it's normally a bad sign
um for a company typically
um cuts are only made when a company
needs to realign it's spent to avoid
more critical scenarios
um but like a mass layoff would suggest
cost-cutting exercise to the point
previously you know if you're what are
your value props is financial great
um but it's worth remembering like where
head count is cut normally the company
will need to improve
um will need to improve its services and
increase efficiencies which is that the
play on like the targeting there
it's also certain companies May announce
layoffs I think Google announced layoffs
in one division
but that doesn't mean as a company
they're doing terribly it just means
that they're realigning their priority
so quite often you'll find when that's
the case a company will announce that
they're having layoffs but they sort of
say okay we're laying off in this area
but we're doubling down elsewhere so
there can be positive things to take
from a from a job loss announcement so
it's it's important to sort of really
read into the reasons behind that job
loss is it Mass job job loss because of
Revenue or is it that they had a two to
three year project that's wrapping up it
wasn't it successful so they're
investing in in other areas
nice one man well there yeah there's
there's a decent list there and there's
there's a lot of those I wasn't really
expecting or hadn't really thought and
I'm sure the audience is the same of
when it comes to how you can actually
use that data to your company's
Advantage
um because a lot of ways that you can
spin it isn't there depending on whether
you're positive whether you go negative
whether you think about the impact it's
happening on the organization and so on
um in terms of we talked a little bit
about sales Outreach and a little bit
about how you can use the data for
marketing are there any unusual ways
either on a sales front or marketing
front that you've seen people utilize
triggers that are perhaps a little bit
lesser known or a bit different
I tell you what we we had a an interest
in uh
use case let's call it that someone
someone was using
um various triggering events
um for podcast Outreach so right we're
on a podcast now it's what they were
actually doing is monitoring for certain
sales triggers and then they were using
that as the trigger for them to reach
out and say
um we notice X has happened we we would
love to speak to you you know we've had
companies x y and z
um on previously and we think you'd be
great to share
um your expertise and knowledge
um in that area with our listeners so
you think about that key person change
again
um if someone's a key person change and
they've had a promotion
um to a director of sales and you've got
a sales podcast great they're gonna have
some fantastic success stories that they
can sort of share and and advice so yeah
podcast Outreach probably not the most
the most obvious one
um but some of the other 100 plus
triggers that you know we could go
through there are some really like small
you know little ones
um that you might not
um think about
um like rebranding companies will
announce rebranding quite often oh yeah
yeah great up great opportunity for an
agency to reach out great opportunity
for for anything sort of related to that
so yeah there's some you can get you can
get really creative I think an easy way
to think about it is everyone knows what
intent data is right so a a signal that
a person could be interested in your
offering based on their their behavior
their digital Behavior so think of sales
triggers as pre-intent data so right
when a company when a triggering event
Fires for that company
um whether that's a layoff or a
financial results announcement
likely what's going to happen following
that announcement is that people in that
company are then going to start looking
at products or services that are going
to help them you know with that trigger
event strategic objective whatever you
want to call it so that's a nice way of
thinking about it like we all Target on
intent signals right we all reach out
and sales from intensive intent signals
Trails triggers are a
wave of a flag to say as a company this
has happened
you know I'm ripe for a conversation in
this three to six month period
it's almost like it's getting in early
before that Prospect might go to
splashing a B2B environment like two or
three vendors I don't know do a Google
search check out our review site click
some kind of AD whatever they go to the
website request three demos and compare
them you're almost getting in early
aren't you
exactly so a lot of those triggers like
you'd say the funding round that's
funding round announcements actually
probably quite late in terms of like a
company is not going to announce its
funding publicly until it's actually
probably that's probably been six to 12
months in the making right so there's
going to be certain triggers that were
the fired in that six or twelve months
prior to that announcement and you think
about today's worlds whether it be
marketing or sales from a marketing
perspective what you're trying to do is
get people aware of your brand as early
as possible builds trust build rapport
educate them for free and then when it
comes down to 300 days or I don't know
say 200 days later and they go we are
actually looking for a tool oh wait the
company that I've been following and you
know reading great content off for the
last 200 days they do actually offer
that so yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna request
a demo and the same goes for sales you
can use the triggers as an opportunity
for you to start building in the
relationship now we're not talking hard
sales like on the phone the day after
like we said it's like it gives you an
indication that you want to keep them on
your radar and maybe from a social
selling perspective connect with them
start engaging with them on LinkedIn
having conversations on LinkedIn that
don't necessarily relate to sales
sharing
you know sharing free advice or free
leads or whatever it is with them and
they will they will come they will
they'll see you as a trustworthy
um rep or trustworthy company and they
will come to you very much a nurture
play it sounds like on some of the stuff
yeah exactly
Jamie look appreciate you coming on
sharing advice all around sales triggers
and how to utilize those to your
advantage so with that please do share
more about having one tuning in can
learn more about yourself your company
and anyway you want to send the audience
brilliant I'll keep it nice and uh short
and sweet I think if you want to connect
me on LinkedIn it's just Jamie Pagan um
I share stuff every single day to do
with sales triggers carousels videos
we've got our own podcasts as well on
that topic
um but if you want to find out more
about sales triggers um then all you
need to do is type in what are sales
Triggers on Google and you'll find sell
agents on the first page there's a great
blog that talks about all 116 that we
track personally which is a really great
place to start and sort of educate
yourself and we also have loads of
videos
um sort of touching on each of those
sales triggers if you want a bit more of
a deep dive on each of you so yeah
seligence.com and there's tons of
resources on there if you want to start
looking at sales triggers and of course
feel free to reach out and message me on
LinkedIn just for advice tips any
questions like that
um always happy to help
Legend good to see the SEO game is
strong as well always yeah I know we've
had the old conversation on on LinkedIn
chat about
um sort of the SEO and stuff and it's uh
it's always nice when you're page one
let's put it that way yeah man for sure
and we'll put all of those links over in
the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that I
want to thank you once again for coming
on the show Jamie fantastic thanks for
having me no worries at all as always if
you enjoyed today's episode a quick
rating or review on your podcast
channels appreciated or if you're on
YouTube you could subscribe goes a long
way and with that we'll catch you on the
next one for more no BS B2B marketing
tips to grow your business grow your
Revenue catch you soon